In this video,
we'll cover the VIP Member Access.
So we'll provide access to special VIP member page
only for authenticated users.
So VIP means, Very Important Person.
So we'll have a protected route
only accessible to authenticated users.
The user must be logged in.
If the user's not logged in,
then we'll simply redirect them to the login screen.
So what we'll do is we'll have this protected route.
So local host 4200/members,
that's the protected route.
So when a user clicks on the Member button,
then we'll show them the special members page
only for members.
And so if authenticated,
it will give access to the route,
else will send the user to the login page.
So they have to be logged in
in order to see the members specials.
So Angular has a concept of route guards.
So a route guard prevents a user
from accessing a part of the application
without authorization.
There's a common route guard interface called CanActivate.
You can provide a custom implementation
for a route guard interface.
You basically return true if the user can access the route
or false otherwise.
And the nice thing here is that Okta
provides a route guard implementation, OktaAuthGuard
and we'll use this in our application.
For route guard, let's take a look at a quick example.
So here's a link to a route.
We'll have a button called member
and there'll be a router link to the routes members.
Now here's our route guard configuration.
So the path of members,
the component of members page component,
and then we'll have this route guard
canActivate, OktaAuthGuard
So if authenticated, it will give access to the route.
Else will send the user to the login page.
All righty, so let's pull this together
with our development process.
So in step one
we're going to generate our members page component.
Then we'll update the template text and the HTML page.
Next we'll add the member button
to the login status component.
And then finally we'll define the protected route
for the members page component.
Alrighty, step one of generating the members page component.
This is really simple, very straightforward.
Use the Angular CLI and do the ng generate component
components/members page.
So in step two
we're going to update the template text in the HTML page.
So here, this is just very basic HTML.
We're telling the user, "Hey, Members special.
Thank you for being a member.
Member discounts are coming soon."
Blah, blah, blah.
We simply write the HTML for this given page.
Then in step three
we add the members button to the login status component.
So we've already done some work
in the login status component.
We'll add this new button here, button member.
That'll be a router link to /members.
And so when they click on this given button here for member
then we'll show them that given members only page.
And now the important piece
of all this is step four of defining a protected route
for the members page component.
So here we have our route that defined members component,
members page component.
And then we'll make use of this route guard,
canActivate the OktaAuthGuard.
So again, if authenticated it will give access to the route.
Else will send the user to the login page.
Now, if you'd like to get some more details here
on the Angular route guards
you can see this link that I have on the slide.
And also if you'd like to get more details
on the OktaAuthGuard, see the link here.
So both of these things
so basically redirect you to the official documentation
for these appropriate route guards.
Alrighty, so this looks pretty good.
Let's go ahead and move into the next video
and let's start writing some code.